In the last lesson we explored the concepts of what graft Q all brings to the development world.
Well here I've actually set up a little playground for you to interact with a different database from
the fire store database that you've built so that you can see what it's like to actually make requests
against a graph.
Server for the data that you're used to using already inside of your crown clothing application.
Now all you gotta do in order to access this playground is simply go to h TTP s colon slash slash w
w w dot Crown slash clothing dot com.
I've set up this playground with a graph q a server for you to play against so that you can see and
make queries against it to actually get a live example of what it's like to actually use the graph q
a library.
I'm going to actually directly demonstrate to you what it's like to write a query for our collections
data.
Now let's actually remove this so that we can write one from scratch ourselves.
The first thing that we need to know as we see from this comment is that there are two types of things
we can request right.
We can either make a query for some data or we can make a mutation to modify some data but we don't
want to make any modifications because again so many students are going to end up using this database.
We want to not have any data that is inconsistent so that different students have different experiences.
Instead we're just going to make queries to request data but I'll show you how to make mutations on
the front end in a few lessons from now.
Now with our query we have to first telegraphed you all that we're making a query and we do that literally
by writing the query keyword.
And what's really great about this playground is that it actually helps you with this autocomplete feature.
So if you're trying to type something it will try and guess what it is that you want and at the same
time it will also let you know if what you're asking for does not exist.
And what do I mean by this.
Well inside of our query there are only certain things that we have access to that are defined by our
database as the kind of data objects that we're allowed to get.
Now our server that I've set up for you guys only holds collections and the items inside of those collections.
So those will be the things that we see here as well as the collections themselves that represent the
things that hold the items inside of them.
And what we're going to do is we are actually going to hit this little schema tab on the side here.
This schema tab will tell you what properties are on what objects that you are able to access.
So let's look at the collection object first on this collection object here.
It will define to you the shape of the data that you have access to and every graph.
Q Well playground that you interact with we'll have this for you because you need to be able to see
it.
This is actually set up through a different library called Prisoner and this is pretty much just a little
tool that allows us on the front end to visualize the data and prison was a very very popular tool on
the back and that gives us access to this playground.
But other tools will also have this.
If you're working with a back in graph you a server that is built on something similar because on the
front end we need to know the shape of the data.
We might be requesting so that we know what we can request for now here.
I'm gonna walk you through what this looks like.
So the type defines the type of objects that are available.
So here for example is a type object called collection on this collection.
You'll see this I.D. and then you'll see this type of I.D. And what this means is that it's actually
just a type that exists on the back end specific to graph Q all meaning that it is an identifier that
must be unique if you see this exclamation mark.
It means that this field is mandatory meaning that it will always be there.
If this collection object exists in the back in.
So this is just one property we can query for.
We can query for I.D. there's a title property which is a string which is exactly the same string type
that we've seen on our front end in JavaScript.
And this is also necessary now here what you'll see is this property called items and this items points
to an array as indicated by the square boxes and inside are items items being this next type.
Right.
So here we have a type collection.
Well then there's also another object type called item meaning that this items property will always
be an array of items and the items are necessary.
So there must be items inside of this array and this next bang after the array means that there will
always be an array as the value of our items property the item object itself has an idea as well.
A name that's a string a price that's a float float being very similar to the same float object type
that we have in JavaScript which is a decimal integer value so integers are whole numbers floats are
numbers that have decimal places.
That's all it is image you are all is a string and then collection which is the owner of this item is
a collection.
So this collection points to this collection.
Now you might be wondering why there's no exclamation mark here.
While there's no exclamation mark because in the back end definition it's just the way that if you were
to delete these items you also don't delete the collection.
It's a nuanced thing about the server of writing back in graph Q all servers that you don't really need
to worry about but that's the main reason why this bang is not here finally here we have these types
called queries and the query is similar to the same query that we asked for and what it allows us to
do.
It defines the type of things we can ask for.
So here we can ask for all of the collections right as our query and what we can expect it to give us
back is an array of collections these collection items the same ones.
Now there's also our ability to ask for a collection by the idea of the collection.
So if we know the idea of the collection while we can get back a collection object or write a specific
collection object where that I.D. matches the idea that we passed into it.
Now if the idea does not exist it won't give us back a collection and that's why you see there's no
exclamation mark because it cannot guarantee that it will give us back a collection if the idea does
not actually exist as an idea of an object.
So that's why there's no bank here.
And that's how you read this schema when you actually look at this.
If you ever interact with another graph.
Q Well database finally there's there's no unique query that we have access to which is called Get collection
by title which similar to the idea it allows us to pass this title to it which will be a string.
And what we'll get back is a collection object.
Now this is also something that must be written on the back end server.
So wherever you see that you have access to is what the person who wrote the back end server wants you
to be able to access.
So this schema is going to be defined by the person writing your backend server.
So if you don't see certain things it just means that you're a person that wrote your back and server
doesn't want you to get access to it or they made a mistake and you can request them to do so to give
you that stuff.
So this is just something that you need to keep in mind about working with graph.
Q Well so again this is a very very extensive workflow in order for us to work with graph.
Q Well now that you understood the schema I'm going to show you how we can actually query for collections
so let's actually use this query collection Well it's simply just say that I want collections and then
we always have to add these brackets around what these specific requests we want is.
So we'll take a little bit of a deeper look about it as well.
But it's just something you kind of have to get used to as far as where these actual brackets will go.
But inside we're going to define the properties that we want when we get back our collections object.
So off of this thing I want the I.D. because I know I can get it and I want the title.
So for now let's just get that if you have this play button you'll see the requests get made and we
get back an object with a data property and that data property actually points to our collections so
this collections object comes back to us as an array and each object inside is these specific different
collection objects that we have stored in our database.
And here you'll see that they look pretty much exactly like the things that we had already been using
with inside of our back and there there's an I.D. and then the title as other hats jackets men's sneakers
women's.
These are the objects that we work with.
Now if I wanted the items as well.
Well as I know from my schema I know that I can query for the items property and I'll get back in array
of the items.
So here I'm just going to say I want the items.
And then on the items if we see this little red tag it actually tells us something we must have a selection
of sub fields.
Right.
So did you mean and then you see that red tag asking us to add properties to this item while here we
can now add the fields of what the items that we want are.
So this is an important thing to note.
If you want this field you must specify the sub fields meaning the properties that you also want on
these objects that you get back inside of this sub collection of this property items.
So what I want is the I.D. I want the name I want the price right and that's it.
I don't want the image you're all let's just say that I just want the actual data.
For some reason I hit play and here you'll see that I get back those objects except now I get this new
items property as well pointing to the array of the objects that I want if I want the image you are
all I can simply just put it here so I can put this property actually anywhere.
The order that you put these properties does not matter but it will be the order that they show up in
the object which is really not significant but it's just something that maybe you want to keep in mind
so once we do this if I hit play again you'll see that now I have our image you are all associated to
the item object I'm getting back as well and this is pretty much making our first query.
That's all it really is.
It's just like writing a Jason object giving it the shape of the data that we want and then expecting
our server to give it back to us.
And with the playground because we get this autocomplete feature these warnings as well as access to
the schema.
Right which tells us what we have access to.
It's really easy for us to figure out what data we need to get or have access to from the back server.
Now in the next lesson let's keep playing around with this playground so we have a better understanding
of what else we can do.
So I will see you in the next lesson.